---
layout: 	post
title: 		Notes about Thinking, Fast and Slow
subtitle:	to save mental energy
date: 		2014-08-17
author: 	Philms
header-img: img/post/2017/post-bg-ios9-web.jpg
catalog: 	true
tags: 		["English","fast and slow","mental energy","system","广告","思考","笔记"]
---

Book Name:Thinking, Fast and Slow
Author: Daniel Kahneman
_Due to the limitation of mental energy, human have involved a most energy-saving thinking and decision pattern, that is-most of the routine actions are guided by the system 1 (the fast thinking system which has hardwired much of the knowledge, that is intuition) and supervised by the system 2 (the slow thinking system which need energy and effect, that's way many people just avoid it) when facing uncertainties. most time this system works well , however there are some flaws of system 1 and system 2 that lead to troubles(for instance, people are often reluctant to infer the particular from the general- though people believe statistics, people always believe that luck will favor them and bad things will never happen to them). **What's worse is that the fast transformation of the world make more and more of the reactions of system 1 evolved from heuristic unsuitable for current life.** **We think that we are rational, because system 2 believe that. However, system 1 reacts first to all situation and never stops.**_ _In this book Doctor Kahneman reveals the mechanisms and limitations of the two systems, then demonstrates how to deal with the flaws._

# Basics about system 1 and system 2

The division of labor between System 1 and System 2 is highly efficient: **_it minimizes effort and optimizes performance_**. The arrangement works well most of the time because System 1 is generally very good at what it does: **its models of familiar situations are accurate, its short-term predictions are usually accurate as well, and its initial reactions to challenges are swift and generally appropriate.**

## System 1- fast thinking part

### Shortcuts in our brain

The capabilities of System 1 include innate skills that we share with other animals. We are born prepared to perceive the world around us, recognize objects, orient attention, avoid losses, and fear spiders. Other mental activities become fast and automatic through prolonged practice. System 1 has learned associations between ideas; it has also learned skills such as reading and understanding nuances of social situations. Some skills, such as finding strong chess moves, are acquired only by specialized experts. Others are widely shared. Detecting the similarity of a personality sketch to an occupational stereotype requires broad knowledge of the language and the culture, which most of us possess.** The knowledge is stored in memory and accessed without intention and without effort.**
System 1 is indeed the origin of much that we do wrong, but it is also the origin of most of what we do right-which is most of what we do. Our thoughts and actions are routinely guided by System 1 and generally are on the mark.

## System 2 - slow thinking part

**The attentive System 2 is who we think we are.** System 2 articulates judgments, makes choices, and overcomes the impulses of System 1, but it often endorses or rationalizes ideas and feelings that were generated by System 1.
System 2 controls thoughts and behaviors - the control that keeps you polite when you are angry, and alert when you are driving at night. System 2 is mobilized to increased effort when it detects an error about to be made.
**Uncertainty and doubt is the domain of System 2, and energy is required for its proper working.**
Frowning generally increases the vigilance of System 2 and reduces both overconfidence and the reliance on intuition.(_That's why engineers more likely to unconsciously frown when facing problems._)

### System 2 needs energy

Roy Baumeister and his colleagues has shown conclusively that **all variants of voluntary effort-cognitive, emotional, or physical-draw at least partly on a shared pool of mental energy. **Baumeister's group has repeatedly found that an effort of will or self-control is tiring; if you have had to force yourself to do something, you are less willing or less able to exert self-control when the next challenge comes around.(_That's why the dorm is like a mess when the exam is coming, most energy is depleted by preparation. And people look untidy when busy with work or something else._)
The most surprising discovery made by Baumeister's group shows, as he puts it, that the idea of mental energy is more than a mere metaphor. The nervous system consumes more glucose than most other parts of the body, and effortful mental activity appears to be especially expensive in the currency of glucose. When you are actively involved in difficult cognitive reasoning or engaged in a task that requires self-control, your blood glucose level drops.(**Study requires enough nutrition!**)
Eckhard Hess had noticed that **the pupils are sensitive indicators of mental effort**-they dilate substantially when people multiply two-digit numbers, and they dilate more if the problems are hard than if they are easy. His observations indicated that the response to mental effort is distinct from emotional arousal. (**BTW, the pupils of the eyes appear dilated in the attractive picture, and portraits with dilated pupils are also more accretive.**)
One of the significant discoveries of cognitive psychologists in recent decades is that switching from one task to another is effortful, especially under time pressure.(**Which means switching between tasks involves system 2**.)

## Working together

Other activities, such as chewing, are susceptible to voluntary control but normally run on automatic pilot. **The control of attention is shared by the two systems.** Orienting to a loud sound is normally an involuntary operation of System 1, which immediately mobilizes the voluntary attention of System 2. You may be able to resist turning toward the source of a loud and offensive comment at a crowded party, but even if your head does not move, your attention is initially directed to it, at least for a while. However, attention can be moved away from an unwanted focus, primarily by focusing intently on another target.
The combination of a coherence-seeking System 1 with a lazy System 2 implies that System 2 will endorse many intuitive beliefs, which closely reflect the impressions generated by System 1. Of course, System 2 also is capable of a more systematic and careful approach to evidence, and of following a list of boxes that must be checked before making a decision-think of buying a home, when you deliberately seek information that you don't have. However, System 1 is expected to influence even the more careful decisions for its input never ceases.

# The Problems

System 1 registers the cognitive ease with which it processes information, but it does not generate a warning signal when it becomes unreliable. Intuitive answers come to mind quickly and confidently, whether they originate from skills or from heuristics. There is no simple way for System 2 to distinguish between a skilled and a heuristic response. Its only recourse is to slow down and attempt to construct an answer on its own, which it is reluctant to do because it is indolent. Many suggestions of System 1 are casually endorsed with minimal checking. This is how System 1 acquires its bad reputation as the source of errors and biases.

## The Flaws of System 2

Remember that System 2 is indolent and that making mental effort is aversive. Most of the time , it just adopt the suggestions of System 1 and march on. System 1 continuously generates suggestions for System 2: impressions, intuitions, intentions, and feelings. If endorsed by System 2, impressions and intuitions turn into beliefs, and impulses turn into voluntary actions.
The laziness of System 2 is an important fact of life, and the observation that representativeness can block the application of an obvious logical rule is also of some interest.

## The Flaws of System 1

Its operative features, which include **_WYSIATI, intensity matching, and associative coherence, among others, give rise to predictable biases and to cognitive illusions such as anchoring, nonregressive predictions, overconfidence, and numerous others._**(Because system 1 cannot be turned off. _Individuals who uncritically follow their intuitions about puzzles are also prone to accept other suggestions from System 1. In particular, they are impulsive, impatient, and keen to receive immediate gratification.)_
System 1 has biases, however, systematic errors that it is prone to make in specified circumstances. As we shall see, it sometimes answers easier questions than the one it was asked, and it has little understanding of logic and statistics.
It suggests that when people believe a conclusion is true, they are also very likely to believe arguments that appear to support it, even when these arguments are unsound. If System 1 is involved, **_the conclusion comes first and the arguments follow_**.
The confirmatory bias of System 1 favors uncritical acceptance of suggestions and exaggeration of the likelihood of extreme and improbable events.(_It isn't sensitive to probabilities._)
When information is scarce, which is a common occurrence, System 1 operates as a machine for **_jumping to conclusions._**
****
When the question is difficult and a skilled solution is not available, intuition still has a shot: an answer may come to mind quickly-but it is not an answer to the original question.
System 1 is radically insensitive to both the quality and the quantity of the information that gives rise to impressions and intuitions.

### The Effect of Culture

###### Money's Effect To The Culture

The general theme of these findings (by Kathleen Vohs) is that the idea of money primes individualism: a reluctance to be involved with others, to depend on others, or to accept demands from others. Her experiments are profound-her findings suggest that** living in a culture that surrounds us with reminders of money may shape our behavior and our attitudes in ways that we do not know about and of which we may not be proud**. Some cultures provide frequent reminders of respect, others constantly remind their members of God, and some societies prime obedience by large images of the Dear Leader. _Can there be any doubt that the ubiquitous portraits of the national leader in **dictatorial societies** not only convey the feeling that "Big Brother Is Watching" but also lead to an actual** reduction in spontaneous thought and independent action**?_

### The Invisible Gorilla.

People may become effectively blind when engaged in a mental sprint.(when system 2 is occupied)
Seeing and orienting are automatic functions of System 1, but they depend on the allocation of some attention to the relevant stimulus. The authors note that the most remarkable observation of their study is that people find its results very surprising. Indeed, the viewers who fail to see the gorilla are initially sure that it was not there-they cannot imagine missing such a striking event. The gorilla study illustrates two important facts about our minds:**_ we can be blind to the obvious, and we are also blind to our blindness_**.

### Cognitive Ease (Exposure Effect)

Words that you have seen before become easier to see again-you can identify them better than other words when they are shown very briefly or masked by noise, and you will be quicker (by a few hundredths of a second) to read them than to read other words. In short, you experience greater cognitive ease in perceiving a word you have seen earlier, and it is this sense of ease that gives you the impression of familiarity.
The familiarity of one phrase in the statement sufficed to make the whole statement feel familiar, and therefore true. If you cannot remember the source of a statement, and have no way to relate it to other things you know, you have no option but to go with the sense of cognitive ease.
**It appears to be a feature of System 1 that cognitive ease is associated with good feelings. ("Mind at Ease Puts a Smile on the Face")**

###### Explanation: Need For Safety

**_Mere exposure effect-repetition induces cognitive ease and a comforting feeling of familiarity_**. The effect does not depend on consciousness at all; indeed, the mere exposure effect is actually stronger for stimuli that the individual never consciously sees.
Zajonc argued that the effect of repetition on liking is a profoundly important biological fact, and that it extends to all animals. To survive in a frequently dangerous world, an organism should react cautiously to a novel stimulus, with withdrawal and fear. Survival prospects are poor for an animal that is not suspicious of novelty. However, it is also adaptive for the initial caution to fade if the stimulus is actually safe. The mere exposure effect occurs, Zajonc claimed, because the repeated exposure of a stimulus is followed by nothing bad. **Such a stimulus will eventually become a safety signal, and safety is good**.
Obviously, this argument is not restricted to humans. To make that point, one of Zajonc's associates exposed two sets of fertile chicken eggs to different tones. After they hatched, the chicks consistently emitted fewer distress calls when exposed to the tone they had heard while inhabiting the shell.
Zajonc offered an eloquent summary: **_The consequences of repeated exposures benefit the organism in its relations to the immediate animate and inanimate environment. They allow the organism to distinguish objects and habitats that are safe from those that are not, and they are the most primitive basis of social attachments. Therefore, they form the basis for social organization and cohesion-the basic sources of psychological and social stability._**

###### Make Sense Of The World (Certainty)

In fact, all the headlines do is satisfy our need for coherence: **a large event is supposed to have consequences, and consequences need causes to explain them**. We have limited information about what happened on a day, and System 1 is adept at finding a coherent causal story that links the fragments of knowledge at its disposal. **We are evidently ready from birth to have impressions of causality, which do not depend on reasoning about patterns of causation.** They are products of System 1. (**_That's why we love stories_**.)

###### Practice: Write a Persuasive Message

Suppose you must write a message that you want the recipients to believe. **_Of course, your message will be true, but that is not necessarily enough for people to believe that it is true._**
**The general principle is that anything you can do to reduce cognitive strain will help, so you should first maximize legibility**. More advice: if your message is to be printed, use high-quality paper to maximize the contrast between characters and their background. If you use color, you are more likely to be believed if your text is printed in bright blue or red than in middling shades of green, yellow, or pale blue. If you care about being thought credible and intelligent, do not use complex language where simpler language will do. Couching familiar ideas in pretentious language is taken as a sign of poor intelligence and low credibility.
The aphorisms were judged more insightful when they rhymed than when they did not.
Finally, if you quote a source, choose one with a name that is easy to pronounce. Remember that System 2 is lazy and that mental effort is aversive. If possible, the recipients of your message want to stay away from anything that reminds them of effort, including a source with a complicated name.
**_That is how advertisement works!_**
****
Vice versa, if you want people to ignore something, just as most of the treacherous firms do in the contracts, just add cognitive strain.
Also notice that performance was better with the bad font. Cognitive strain, whatever its source, mobilizes System 2, which is more likely to reject the intuitive answer suggested by System 1. (**Which is good for training and test! **)

### A Bias to Believe and Confirm

Daniel Gilbert proposed that understanding a statement must begin with an attempt to believe it: you must first know what the idea would mean if it were true. Only then can you decide whether or not to unbelieve it. **The initial attempt to believe is an automatic operation of System 1, which involves the construction of the best possible interpretation of the situation.**
Gilbert sees unbelieving as an operation of System 2, The disruption of System 2 had a selective effect: it made it difficult for people to "unbelieve" false sentences.**_ The moral is significant: when System 2 is otherwise engaged, we will believe almost anything._** System 1 is gullible and biased to believe, System 2 is in charge of doubting and unbelieving, but System 2 is sometimes busy, and often lazy. Indeed, there is evidence that people are more likely to be influenced by empty persuasive messages, such as commercials, when they are tired and depleted.(**_How brainwash works!!!_**)

### Exaggerated Emotional Coherence (Halo Effect)

The halo effect is a good name for a common bias that plays a large role in shaping our view of people and situations. **_It is one of the ways the representation of the world that System 1 generates is simpler and more coherent than the real thing._**
The halo effect is also an example of **suppressed ambiguity**: like the word bank, the adjective stubborn is ambiguous and will be interpreted in a way that makes it coherent with the context.
The sequence in which we observe characteristics of a person is often determined by chance. **_Sequence matters_**, however, because the halo effect increases the weight of first impressions, sometimes to the point that subsequent information is mostly wasted. (Sometimes sequence means luck):The standard practice of open discussion gives too much weight to the opinions of those who speak early and assertively, causing others to line up behind them.

### What You See is All There is (WYSIATI)

**Jumping to conclusions on the basis of limited evidence** is so important to an understanding of intuitive thinking, and comes up so often in this book, that I will use a cumbersome abbreviation for it: WYSIATI, which stands for what you see is all there is.
**_WYSIATI facilitates the achievement of coherence and of the cognitive ease that causes us to accept a statement as true. It explains why we can think fast, and how we are able to make sense of partial information in a complex world._**
****
An essential design feature of the associative machine is that it represents only activated ideas. Information that is not retrieved (even unconsciously) from memory might as well not exist. System 1 excels at constructing the best possible story that incorporates ideas currently activated, but it does not (cannot) allow for information it does not have. (**_That's why education matters - you can only know when you have experienced or have learned it._**)
Nevertheless, the presentation of one-sided evidence had a very pronounced effect on judgments. Furthermore, participants who saw one-sided evidence were more confident of their judgments than those who saw both sides. This is just what you would expect if the confidence that people experience is determined by the coherence of the story they manage to construct from available information. It is the consistency of the information that matters for a good story, not its completeness. Indeed, you will often find that knowing little makes it easier to fit everything you know into a coherent pattern.(**_That's why too much knowledge maybe a burden if you do not have enough wisdom_**)

### Stereotypes -Representativeness

Logicians and statisticians have developed competing definitions of probability, all very precise. For laypeople, however, probability is a vague notion, related to uncertainty, propensity, plausibility, and surprise. We know, more or less, what we mean when we use a word such as democracy or beauty and the people we are talking to understand, more or less, what we intended to say. People who are asked to assess probability are not stumped, because they do not try to judge probability as statisticians and philosophers use the word. A question about probability or likelihood activates a mental shotgun, evoking answers to easier questions. One of the easy answers is an automatic assessment of representativeness - routine in understanding language.
We rely on representativeness when we judge the potential leadership of a candidate for office by the shape of his chin or the forcefulness of his speeches.
**_Judging probability by representativeness has important virtues: the intuitive impressions that it produces are often-indeed, usually-more accurate than chance guesses would be.(That's why stereotypes still exist)_**

###### Sin of Representativeness

Although it is common, **prediction by representativeness is not statistically optimal**. In all these cases and in many others, there is some truth to the stereotypes that govern judgments of representativeness, and predictions that follow this heuristic may be accurate. In other situations, the stereotypes are false and the representativeness heuristic will mislead, especially if it causes people to neglect base-rate information that points in another direction. Even when the heuristic has some validity, exclusive reliance on it is associated with grave sins against statistical logic.
Psychologists have conducted many experiments in which base-rate information is explicitly provided as part of the problem, and many of the participants are influenced by those base rates, although the information about the individual case is almost always weighted more than mere statistics.
When an incorrect intuitive judgment is made, System 1 and System 2 should both be indicted. System 1 suggested the incorrect intuition, and System 2 endorsed it and expressed it in a judgment. However, there are two possible reasons for the failure of System 2-ignorance or laziness. Some people ignore base rates because they believe them to be irrelevant in the presence of individual information. Others make the same mistake because they are not focused on the task. If frowning makes a difference, **_laziness seems to be the proper explanation of base-rate neglect_**, at least among Harvard undergrads. Their System 2 "knows" that base rates are relevant even when they are not explicitly mentioned, but applies that knowledge only when it invests special effort in the task.
The second sin of representativeness is insensitivity to the quality of evidence.
You surely understand in principle that worthless information should not be treated differently from a complete lack of information, but WYSIATI makes it very difficult to apply that principle. Unless you decide immediately to reject evidence (for example, by determining that you received it from a liar), your System 1 will automatically process the information available as if it were true. There is one thing you can do when you have doubts about the quality of the evidence: let your judgments of probability stay close to the base rate. Don't expect this exercise of discipline to be easy-it requires a significant effort of self-monitoring and self-control.

###### Stereotypes and Categories

Stereotyping is a bad word in our culture, but in my usage it is neutral. **One of the basic characteristics of System 1 is that it represents categories as norms and prototypical exemplars**. This is how we think of horses, refrigerators, and New York police officers; we hold in memory a representation of one or more "normal" members of each of these categories. When the categories are social, these representations are called stereotypes. Some stereotypes are perniciously wrong, and hostile stereotyping can have dreadful consequences, but the psychological facts cannot be avoided: **_stereotypes, both correct and false, are how we think of categories._**

###### Individuals Better Than Statistics in Making Sense

To teach students any psychology they did not know before, you must surprise them. But which surprise will do? Nisbett and Borgida found that when they presented their students with a surprising statistical fact, the students managed to learn nothing at all. But when the students were surprised by individual cases-two nice people who had not helped-they immediately made the generalization and inferred that helping is more difficult than they had thought. Nisbett and Borgida summarize the results in a memorable sentence: **_Subjects' unwillingness to deduce the particular from the general was matched only by their willingness to infer the general from the particular._**
There is a deep gap between our thinking about statistics and our thinking about individual cases. Statistical results with a causal interpretation have a stronger effect on our thinking than noncausal information. But even compelling causal statistics will not change long-held beliefs or beliefs rooted in personal experience. On the other hand, surprising individual cases have a powerful impact and are a more effective tool for teaching psychology because the incongruity must be resolved and embedded in a causal story. That is why this book contains questions that are addressed personally to the reader. **_You are more likely to learn something by finding surprises in your own behavior than by hearing surprising facts about people in general_**.

### Performance Regression: Notion for Training

It was apparent that most (but not all) of those who had done best the first time deteriorated on their second try, and those who had done poorly on the first attempt generally improved. I pointed out to the instructors that what they saw on the board coincided with what we had heard about the performance of aerobatic maneuvers on successive attempts: poor performance was typically followed by improvement and good performance by deterioration, without any help from either praise or punishment.
The discovery I made on that day was that the flight instructors were trapped in an unfortunate contingency: because they punished cadets when performance was poor, they were mostly rewarded by a subsequent improvement, even if punishment was actually ineffective. Furthermore, the instructors were not alone in that predicament. I had stumbled onto a significant fact of the human condition: the feedback to which life exposes us is perverse. Because we tend to be nice to other people when they please us and nasty when they do not, we are statistically punished for being nice and rewarded for being nasty.(**An alarm for education.**)

### Hindsight-the Unknown Unknown

Many intelligent and well-informed people were keenly interested in the future of the economy and did not believe a catastrophe was imminent; I infer from this fact that the crisis was not knowable. What is perverse about the use of known in this context is not that some individuals get credit for prescience that they do not deserve. It is that the language implies that the world is more knowable than it is. It helps perpetuate a pernicious illusion. **The core of the illusion is that we believe we understand the past, which implies that the future also should be knowable, but in fact we understand the past less than we believe we do**. Know is not the only word that fosters this illusion. In common usage, the words intuition and premonition also are reserved for past thoughts that turned out to be true.

###### Patterns for Certainty or Just Luck?

**Consumers have a hunger for a clear message about the determinants of success and failure in business, and they need stories that offer a sense of understanding, however illusory**.(the demand for illusory certainty in society, **_especially the female ones in love_**.)
Indeed, the halo effect is so powerful that you probably find yourself resisting the idea that the same person and the same behaviors appear methodical when things are going well and rigid when things are going poorly. Because of the halo effect, we get the causal relationship backward: we are prone to believe that the firm fails because its CEO is rigid, when the truth is that the CEO appears to be rigid because the firm is failing. This is how illusions of understanding are born.
The halo effect and outcome bias combine to explain the extraordinary appeal of books that seek to draw operational morals from systematic examination of successful businesses.
**_Because luck plays a large role, the quality of leadership and management practices cannot be inferred reliably from observations of success._**

You are probably tempted to think of causal explanations for these observations: perhaps the successful firms became complacent, the less successful firms tried harder. But this is the wrong way to think about what happened. The average gap must shrink, because the original gap was due in good part to luck, which contributed both to the success of the top firms and to the lagging performance of the rest. We have already encountered this statistical fact of life: regression to the mean.
**_Stories of how businesses rise and fall strike a chord with readers by offering what the human mind needs: a simple message of triumph and failure that identifies clear causes and ignores the determinative power of luck and the inevitability of regression._** These stories induce and maintain an illusion of understanding, imparting lessons of little enduring value to readers who are all too eager to believe them.
**The illusion of skill** is not only an individual aberration; it is deeply ingrained in the culture of the industry. Facts that challenge such basic assumptions-and thereby threaten people's livelihood and self-esteem-are simply not absorbed. The mind does not digest them. This is particularly true of statistical studies of performance, which provide base-rate information that people generally ignore when it clashes with their personal impressions from experience.

## Making Decision

Why are experts inferior to algorithms? One reason, which Meehl suspected, is that experts try to be clever, think outside the box, and consider complex combinations of features in making their predictions. **Complexity may work in the odd case, but more often than not it reduces validity.** Simple combinations of features are better. Several studies have shown that human decision makers are inferior to a prediction formula even when they are given the score suggested by the formula! They feel that they can overrule the formula because they have additional information about the case, but they are wrong more often than not.(_More information may indicates more noise._)
Another reason for the inferiority of expert judgment is that humans are incorrigibly inconsistent in making summary judgments of complex information. When asked to evaluate the same information twice, they frequently give different answers. The extent of the inconsistency is often a matter of real concern.
More recent research went further: **_formulas that assign equal weights to all the predictors are often superior, because they are not affected by accidents of sampling._**

### Recognition-Primed Decision

Klein elaborated this description into a theory of decision making that he called the **Recognition-Primed Decision (RPD) model,** which applies to firefighters but also describes expertise in other domains, including chess. The process involves both System 1 and System 2. In the first phase, a tentative plan comes to mind by an automatic function of associative memory-System 1. The next phase is a deliberate process in which the plan is mentally simulated to check if it will work-an operation of System 2. The model of intuitive decision making as pattern recognition develops ideas presented some time ago by Herbert Simon, perhaps the only scholar who is recognized and admired as a hero and founding figure by all the competing clans and tribes in the study of decision making.
I quoted Herbert Simon's definition of intuition in the introduction, but it will make more sense when I repeat it now: "**The situation has provided a cue; this cue has given the expert access to information stored in memory, and the information provides the answer. Intuition is nothing more and nothing less than recognition.**" This strong statement reduces the apparent magic of intuition to the everyday experience of memory. We marvel at the story of the firefighter who has a sudden urge to escape a burning house just before it collapses, because the firefighter knows the danger intuitively, "without knowing how he knows." However, we also do not know how we immediately know that a person we see as we enter a room is our friend Peter. The moral of Simon's remark is that**_ the mystery of knowing without knowing is not a distinctive feature of intuition; it is the norm of mental life_**.

### Forecast the Future

It is wrong to blame anyone for failing to forecast accurately in an unpredictable world. However, it seems fair to blame professionals for believing they can succeed in an impossible task. Claims for correct intuitions in an unpredictable situation are self-delusional at best, sometimes worse. In the absence of valid cues, intuitive "hits" are due either to luck or to lies. If you find this conclusion surprising, you still have a lingering belief that intuition is magic. Remember this rule: intuition cannot be trusted in the absence of stable regularities in the environment. (**_Why forecast the future is impossible: if it is possible, then all can be designed, which means an absolute rational and well-organized world!)_**

### Overconfidence: the Cultural Bias

Here again, as in the case of subjective confidence, the experts may not know the limits of their expertise. An experienced psychotherapist knows that she is skilled in working out what is going on in her patient's mind and that she has good intuitions about what the patient will say next. It is tempting for her to conclude that she can also anticipate how well the patient will do next year, but this conclusion is not equally justified. **Short-term anticipation and long-term forecasting are different tasks, and the therapist has had adequate opportunity to learn one but not the other.(**_all two requires feedback, which long-term forecasting lacks._**)**
One of the lessons of the financial crisis that led to the Great Recession is that there are periods in which competition, among experts and among organizations, creates powerful forces that favor a collective blindness to risk and uncertainty. The social and economic pressures that favor overconfidence are not restricted to financial forecasting. Other professionals must deal with the fact that an expert worthy of the name is expected to display high confidence. "**Generally, it is considered a weakness and a sign of vulnerability for clinicians to appear unsure. Confidence is valued over uncertainty and there is a prevailing censure against disclosing uncertainty to patients**."

###### The Benefit of Optimism

The effects of high optimism on decision making are, at best, a mixed blessing, but the contribution of optimism to good implementation is certainly positive. The main benefit of optimism is resilience in the face of setbacks. According to Martin Seligman, the founder of positive psychology, **an "optimistic explanation style" contributes to resilience by defending one's self-image**.
In essence, the optimistic style involves taking credit for successes but little blame for failures. This style can be taught, at least to some extent, and Seligman has documented the effects of training on various occupations that are characterized by a high rate of failures, such as cold-call sales of insurance (a common pursuit in pre-Internet days). When one has just had a door slammed in one's face by an angry homemaker, the thought that "she was an awful woman" is clearly superior to "I am an inept salesperson." I have always believed that scientific research is another domain where **a form of optimism is essential to success**: I have yet to meet a successful scientist who lacks the ability to exaggerate the importance of what he or she is doing, and I believe that someone who lacks a delusional sense of significance will wilt in the face of repeated experiences of multiple small failures and rare successes, the fate of most researchers.

### Loss aversion

**Human treat gain and loss separately, for they are two completely different outcomes.**
I call it theory-induced blindness:**_ once you have accepted a theory and used it as a tool in your thinking, it is extraordinarily difficult to notice its flaws_**. If you come upon an observation that does not seem to fit the model, you assume that there must be a perfectly good explanation that you are somehow missing. You give the theory the benefit of the doubt, trusting the community of experts who have accepted it. Many scholars have surely thought at one time or another of stories such as those of Anthony and Betty, or Jack and Jill, and casually noted that these stories did not jibe with utility theory. But they did not pursue the idea to the point of saying, "This theory is seriously wrong because it ignores the fact that **_utility depends on the history of one's wealth, not only on present wealth(_**_people with different mount of wealth have different risk tolerance**)**_." As the psychologist Daniel Gilbert observed, disbelieving is hard work, and System 2 is easily tired.

###### Wealth matters

As you carried out this exercise, you probably found that your loss aversion coefficient(money you want gain/ loss) tends to increase when the stakes rise, but not dramatically. All bets are off, of course, if the possible loss is potentially ruinous, or if your lifestyle is threatened. The loss aversion coefficient is very large in such cases and may even be infinite-there are risks that you will not accept, regardless of how many millions you might stand to win if you are lucky.
Recent studies of the psychology of "decision making under poverty" suggest that the poor are another group in which we do not expect to find the endowment effect. Being poor, in prospect theory, is living below one's reference point. There are goods that the poor need and cannot afford, so they are always "in the losses." **Small amounts of money that they receive are therefore perceived as a reduced loss, not as a gain**. The money helps one climb a little toward the reference point, but the poor always remain on the steep limb of the value function. People who are poor think like traders, but the dynamics are quite different. Unlike traders, the poor are not indifferent to the differences between gaining and giving up**_. Their problem is that all their choices are between losses. Money that is spent on one good is the loss of another good that could have been purchased instead. For the poor, costs are losses.(poor man's thinking pattern)_**

###### Loss Aversive

The negatives trumps the positive in many ways, and loss aversion is one of many manifestations of a broad negativity dominance. Other scholars, in a paper titled "Bad Is Stronger Than Good," summarized the evidence as follows: "**Bad emotions, bad parents, and bad feedback have more impact than good ones, and bad information is processed more thoroughly than good. The self is more motivated to avoid bad self-definitions than to pursue good ones. Bad impressions and bad stereotypes are quicker to form and more resistant to disconfirmation than good ones.**" They cite John Gottman, the well-known expert in marital relations, who observed that the long-term success of a relationship depends far more on avoiding the negative than on seeking the positive. Gottman estimated that a stable relationship requires good interactions outnumber bad interactions by at least 5 to 1. Other asymmetries in the social domain are even more striking. We all know that a friendship that may take years to develop can be ruined by a single action.

###### Reference point matters

Some distinctions between good and bad are hardwired into our biology. Infants enter the world ready to respond to pain as bad and to sweet (up to a point) as good. In many situations, however, t**_he boundary between good and bad is a reference point that changes over time and depends on the immediate circumstances_**. Imagine that you are out in the country on a cold night, inadequately dressed for the torrential rain, your clothes soaked. A stinging cold wind completes your misery. As you wander around, you find a large rock that provides some shelter from the fury of the elements. The biologist Michel Cabanac would call the experience of that moment intensely pleasurable because it functions, as pleasure normally does, to indicate the direction of a biologically significant improvement of circumstances. The pleasant relief will not last very long, of course, and you will soon be shivering behind the rock again, driven by your renewed suffering to seek better shelter.

### Possibility and Weight - the Black Swan

Possibility and certainty have similarly powerful effects in the domain of losses. When a loved one is wheeled into surgery, a 5% risk that an amputation will be necessary is very bad-much more than half as bad as a 10% risk. **_Because of the possibility effect, we tend to overweight small risks and are willing to pay far more than expected value to eliminate them altogether._** The psychological difference between a 95% risk of disaster and the certainty of disaster appears to be even greater; the sliver of hope that everything could still be okay looms very large. Overweighting of small probabilities increases the attractiveness of both gambles and insurance policies. **_The conclusion is straightforward: the decision weights that people assign to outcomes are not identical to the probabilities of these outcomes, contrary to the expectation principle. Improbable outcomes are overweighted-this is the possibility effect. Outcomes that are almost certain are underweighted relative to actual certainty. The expectation principle, by which values are weighted by their probability, is poor psychology._**
****
Probabilities that are extremely low or high (below 1% or above 99%) are a special case. **_It is difficult to assign a unique decision weight to very rare events, because they are sometimes ignored altogether, effectively assigned a decision weight of zero. On the other hand, when you do not ignore the very rare events, you will certainly overweight them._** Most of us spend very little time worrying about nuclear meltdowns or fantasizing about large inheritances from unknown relatives. However, when an unlikely event becomes the focus of attention, we will assign it much more weight than its probability deserves. Furthermore, people are almost completely insensitive to variations of risk among small probabilities. A cancer risk of 0.001% is not easily distinguished from a risk of 0.00001%, although the former would translate to 3,000 cancers for the population of the United States, and the latter to 30.
My experience illustrates how terrorism works and why it is so effective: it induces an availability cascade. An extremely vivid image of death and damage, constantly reinforced by media attention and frequent conversations, becomes highly accessible, especially if it is associated with a specific situation such as the sight of a bus. The emotional arousal is associative, automatic, and uncontrolled, and it produces an impulse for protective action. **_System 2 may "know" that the probability is low, but this knowledge does not eliminate the self-generated discomfort and the wish to avoid it. System 1 cannot be turned off. The emotion is not only disproportionate to the probability, it is also insensitive to the exact level of probability._**
A rich and vivid representation of the outcome, whether or not it is emotional, reduces the role of probability in the evaluation of an uncertain prospect. You constructed the event in your mind, and the vivid image of the outcome exists there even if you know that its probability is low. Cognitive ease contributes to the certainty effect as well: **_when you hold a vivid image of an event, the possibility of its not occurring is also represented vividly, and overweighted._** The combination of an enhanced possibility effect with an enhanced certainty effect leaves little room for decision weights to change between chances of 21% and 84%.

# Other Flaws of System 1

## Mental Accounts

we hold our money in different accounts, which are sometimes physical, sometimes only mental. We have spending money, general savings, earmarked savings for our children's education or for medical emergencies. There is a clear hierarchy in our willingness to draw on these accounts to cover current needs. We use accounts for self-control purposes, as in making a household budget, limiting the daily consumption of espressos, or increasing the time spent exercising. Often we pay for self-control, for instance simultaneously putting money in a savings account and maintaining debt on credit cards. The Econs of the rational-agent model do not resort to mental accounting: they have a comprehensive view of outcomes and are driven by external incentives. For Humans, mental accounts are a form of narrow framing; they keep things under control and manageable by a finite mind.
**"It is often the case that when you broaden the frame, you reach more reasonable decisions."**

## Formulation Matters

The different choices in the two frames fit prospect theory, in which choices between gambles and sure things are resolved differently, depending on whether the outcomes are good or bad. **Decision makers tend to prefer the sure thing over the gamble (they are risk averse) when the outcomes are good. They tend to reject the sure thing and accept the gamble (they are risk seeking) when both outcomes are negative. **These conclusions were well established for choices about gambles and sure things in the domain of money. The disease problem shows that the same rule applies when the outcomes are measured in lives saved or lost. In this context, as well, the framing experiment reveals that risk-averse and risk-seeking preferences are not reality-bound. Preferences between the same objective outcomes reverse with different formulations.

## The Two Selves And Memories

**_we only remembers the start the peak and the end then make sense base on it._**_(read more about it from mindsight).**(This also means that process matters in the process while in the memory only peak and end matters- that's why we love happy endings)**_
****
The experiencing self is the one that answers the question: "Does it hurt now?" The remembering self is the one that answers the question: "How was it, on the whole?" Memories are all we get to keep from our experience of living, and the only perspective that we can adopt as we think about our lives is therefore that of the remembering self. **The experiencing self does not have a voice**. **The remembering self is sometimes wrong, but it is the one that keeps score and governs what we learn from living, and it is the one that makes decisions.** What we learn from the past is to maximize the qualities of our future memories, not necessarily of our future experience. This is the tyranny of the remembering self.
As expected from this idea, Diener and his students also found a less-is-more effect, a strong indication that an average (prototype) has been substituted for a sum. Adding 5 "slightly happy" years to a very happy life caused a substantial drop in evaluations of the total happiness of that life.
**What truly matters when we intuitively assess such episodes is the progressive deterioration or improvement of the ongoing experience, and how the person feels at the end.**

Some moments end up weighted more than others, either because they are memorable or because they are important. The time that people spend dwelling on a memorable moment should be included in its duration, adding to its weight. A moment can also gain importance by altering the experience of subsequent moments.
**It is only a slight exaggeration to say that happiness is the experience of spending time with people you love and who love you.**
In the DRM studies, there was no overall difference in experienced well-being between women who lived with a mate and women who did not. The details of how the two groups used their time explained the finding. Women who have a mate spend less time alone, but also much less time with friends. They spend more time making love, which is wonderful, but also more time doing housework, preparing food, and caring for children, all relatively unpopular activities. And of course, the large amount of time married women spend with their husband is much more pleasant for some than for others. **Experienced well-being is on average unaffected by marriage, not because marriage makes no difference to happiness but because it changes some aspects of life for the better and others for the worse.**

## The Focusing Illusion

Although their view of their life was influenced by a question about dating or by a coin on the copying machine, the participants in these studies did not forget that there is more to life than dating or feeling lucky. The concept of happiness is not suddenly changed by finding a dime, but System 1 readily substitutes a small part of it for the whole of it. Any aspect of life to which attention is directed will loom large in a global evaluation. This is the essence of the focusing illusion, which can be described in a single sentence: **_Nothing in life is as important as you think it is when you are thinking about it._**
The focusing illusion creates a bias in favor of goods and experiences that are initially exciting, even if they will eventually lose their appeal. Time is neglected, causing experiences that will retain their attention value in the long term to be appreciated less than they deserve to be.

# Conclusions: What To Do

What can be done about biases? How can we improve judgments and decisions, both our own and those of the institutions that we serve and that serve us? The short answer is that little can be achieved without a considerable investment of effort. As I know from experience, System 1 is not readily educable. **The way to block errors that originate in System 1 is simple in principle: recognize the signs that you are in a cognitive minefield, slow down, and ask for reinforcement from System 2**.Organizations are better than individuals when it comes to avoiding errors, because they naturally think more slowly and have the power to impose orderly procedures.
**BTW, stay open, keep learning and give up the old ideas will make the process a bit easier!**